model/readme.md, before:

# TTF Model

The Model is a prototype object model and simple api for creating and consuming the TTF metadata and content as well as building user interfaces for controlled user input to ensure valid content submission before pull requests to merge into the TTF after a workshop.

Additionally, the Model can be used to dynamically generate TTF maps to implementation source code, implementations or other frameworks. i.e. legal, regulatory.

This model could be used to represent an artifact's metadata and serialized and saved as json in the artifact folder instead of sprinkling metadata around in html tags or json within artifact documents.

Consuming an artifact folder to generate a artifact from the model would populate the object model with the metadata and the collection of files in the folder.

## Model of Artifacts

The model is used in conjunction with the artifact folders.

## Prerequisites

- install the protoc [gRpcWeb](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web/releases) extension and [install](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web).  OSX:

```bash
sudo mv ~/Downloads/protoc-gen-grpc-web-1.0.4-darwin-x86_64 \
  /usr/local/bin/protoc-gen-grpc-web
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/protoc-gen-grpc-web
```

Commit message:

Adding model and service documentation
In process.

model/readme.md, after:

# TTF Model

The Taxonomy Object Model (TOM) is a protocol buffer based object model for the artifacts,metadata and content, that make up the TTF. The TOM should be the primary means for interacting with artifacts and the TTF using applications build for web, model and desktop based applications.

The TTF's artifacts are stored in the [artifacts](../artifacts) folder as json files. The TOM serializes and de-serializes to these files, using the [Taxonomy Service](../tools/TaxonomyService) that can perform all create, read, update and delete operations on the TOM and saving it to the artifacts folder structure.

You can modify an artifact's json files directly, but references and symbols to other artifacts will need to be manually checked.

- Documentation of the [TOM](tom.md)
- Documentation for the gRpc [Taxonomy Services](taxonomyServices.md)

## Prerequisites

- install the protoc [gRpcWeb](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web/releases) extension and [install](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web).
