README.md, before:

# Contents

©2019 Token Taxonomy Initiative Inc. (“EEA”).  All Rights Reserved. EEA Proprietary and Confidential.

The contents of this repo contain the Token Taxonomy Framework (TTF) comprised of the following:

- [Taxonomy](token-taxonomy.md) - overview and taxonomy syntax and definitions used to create artifacts that conform to the taxonomy.
- [Control Messages](token-control-messages.md) - base control message definitions
- [Taxonomy File Format](taxonomy-file-format.md) - instructions and format rules for creating taxonomy artifacts.
- [Q/A](rude-qa.md) - suggested answers for difficult or common questions.
- [Artifacts](artifacts) - starting artifacts for base token types and a handful of common behaviors and a single behavior group.  These are samples/template artifacts.
- [Presentations](presentations) - PowerPoint presentations
- [Tools](...) - coming soon.

## Legal Notices

Welcome to the Token Taxonomy Initiative (“TTI”) hosted by the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance Inc. (“EEA”).
By accessing and/or using this GitHub repository, you agree to abide by the TTI Terms and Conditions of Use of GitHub Repository, respective TTI Participation Agreement or EEA Membership Agreement, and the EEA Intellectual Property Rights Policy and other EEA agreements and policies and procedures provided for your compliance upon joining the TTI and/or EEA.

The Token Taxonomy Initiative and any contributors grant you a license to the Microsoft documentation and other content
in this repository under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Public License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode),
see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file, and grant you a license to any code in the repository under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), see the
[LICENSE-CODE](LICENSE-CODE) file.

Commit message:

Model Tools Generated
Rebuild artifacts using the model.

README.md, after:

# Contents

©2019 Token Taxonomy Initiative Inc. (“EEA”).  All Rights Reserved. EEA Proprietary and Confidential. This Github repository has been set up as a collaboration site for its users and by accessing this GitHub repository or using it in any way, you are consenting to be bound by the [Token Taxonomy Initiative Terms and Conditions of Use](TERMS-OF-USE) of GitHub Repository.

The contents of this repo contain the Token Taxonomy Framework (TTF) comprised of the following:

- [Taxonomy](token-taxonomy.md) - overview and taxonomy syntax and definitions used to create artifacts that conform to the taxonomy.
- [Control Messages](token-control-messages.md) - base control message definitions
- [Taxonomy File Format](taxonomy-file-format.md) - instructions and format rules for creating taxonomy artifacts.
- [Q/A](rude-qa.md) - suggested answers for difficult or common questions.
- [Artifacts](artifacts) - starting artifacts for base token types and a handful of common behaviors and a single behavior group.  These are samples/template artifacts.
- [Presentations](presentations) - PowerPoint presentations
- [Tools](...) - coming soon.

## Legal Notices

Welcome to the Token Taxonomy Initiative (“TTI”) hosted by the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance Inc. (“EEA”).
By accessing and/or using this GitHub repository, you agree to abide by the TTI Terms and Conditions of Use of GitHub Repository, respective TTI Participation Agreement or EEA Membership Agreement, and the EEA Intellectual Property Rights Policy and other EEA agreements and policies and procedures provided for your compliance upon joining the TTI and/or EEA.

The Token Taxonomy Initiative and any contributors grant you a license to the Microsoft documentation and other content
in this repository under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Public License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode),
see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file, and grant you a license to any code in the repository under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), see the
[LICENSE-CODE](LICENSE-CODE) file.
